- [Instructor] Of all the patterns
that we're going to talk about
on this course,
the prototype pattern is the one that I have used the least
in raw Java.
But it's one that I use quite often
in Spring.
And we're going to spend quite a bit of time focusing
on the Spring side of this pattern.
So let's talk about how it's used in Spring.
Any bean that has its scope marked as prototype
are treated as prototype beans.
Now in Spring, the bean configuration itself
is what is used as the prototype.
In fact, in Java config,
the actual bean method gets called
every time that you need an instance of that object
through the prototype scoping.
New instances are created, not cloned
as we will see in a traditional Java implementation
when needed by the runtime
and this is important.
None of this work is actually done at startup,
it is not done until the instance is actually needed
and injected into the application context
or the runtime itself.
Now the traditional Java pattern
is often done
through a very straightforward prototypical manner.
An instance is cloned at runtime
and cloned is the key here.
It's cloned at runtime
to give a new instance
that are not the prototype
but act the same.
And often, in fact usually have the same state.
In Java this is usually done
through this Cloneable interface.
In fact, every time I've ever seen a real prototype
written in the wild,
it's done using this exact same pattern
which is obviously the purpose
of a design pattern.
So you use this Cloneable interface
in a sub-class
throughout the rest of your application runtime.
Now, prototypes are usually done with deep clones
and deep clones are key
if you want to maintain safety
especially thread safety of your object.
Because if you're just doing shallow clones,
all of those pointers stay the same
and it kind of defeats the purpose
of why you would do this in the first place.
So with that being said,
let's talk about the why's on this pattern.
Now, it's very useful
when object creation is expensive.
But the wrapper has to be unique.
So if the object creation is expensive
and the wrapper has to be the same,
we would go through a singleton pattern usually.
But when the wrapper has to be unique and different,
that's when the prototype comes into play.
This is useful when objects that must act thread safe
but need to store state.
So the times that I've seen them
are often things like shopping carts
where you actually want the same behavior
but the individual items in the cart
are different,
so a prototype really adds some value
because usually there's things
that are coming with that object
that are needed to maintain the behavior
and they're shared across the entire application
like tax tables and calculations and whatnot.
Now, the benefit here
when it comes to all of this creation
is that you often are providing cost savings.
If we had to go regenerate the entire tax calculation
at runtime, we would be taking a lot of effort
when we're doing the shopping cart.
When we can pass that around through this prototype,
we don't have to create it every time
because it's very expensive
and it reduces the cost
of runtime object creation
and obviously speed is everything
especially if you're looking at something
like an e-commerce site.
So how would we go about creating this in the Java world?
In my example that we're going to do in the next video
we're going to show you in the Spring world.
But in the Java world it's a little bit different.
So in Java, you create an abstract base class
that implements Cloneable.
You extend that class
with your prototype instances.
Then, you override the clone method
in those prototype instances
to provide the class specific behavior
that you need.
That way you're controlling what is cloned
and what is created new.
You have to be sure to clone sensitive sub-objects
to prevent threading issues.
And again, this is very very important.
If the sub-object can change at runtime,
you have to make sure you clone it.
If it doesn't change, you have to keep it static
and protect it's access.
This prototype pattern can be very confusing
if you don't really think
about all the use cases of your objects.
But again, this is not something I've seen in the wild
outside of Spring very often.
So for this course
we're going to focus on the Spring implementation
and let's jump into that.